AGREE WITH - estar de acuerdo - "All women are bad drivers." "I don't agree with you." 
BE ABOUT TO - estar a punto de -I was about to leave the house when my friends arrived. 
BE BACK - regresar -I'm working late at the office tonight so I won't be back until 10. 
BE OUT OF - quedarse sin - We're out of eggs so we can't make a tortilla. 
BE OVER - terminarse - When the football match was over, we went to the pub. 
BE UP - estar levantado - "Phil isn't up yet: he's still in bed. Phone again in ten minutes." 
BLOW UP - estallar (una bomba) - The bomb blew up killing six people. 
BLOW UP - inflar - We blew up at least a hundred balloons for the Christmas party. 
BREAK DOWN - averiarse - My car broke down on the way to Motril. 
CALL BACK - volver a llamar - "I'm afraid the manager isn't here at the moment. Could you call back later?" 
CARRY ON - seguir. continuar - I'm sorry if I interrupted you. Please carry on. 
CARRY OUT - cumplir (una promesa) - The President carried out his promise to reduce taxation. 
CARRY OUT - llevar a cabo - The execution was carried out at seven o'clock in the morning. 
CLEAR UP - poner en orden - It took four hours to clear up after the party. 
COME ACROSS - encontrar, dar con - I came across an old friend on the metro in Madrid. 
COME BACK - regresar - I'm going to England for two weeks. I'm coming back on the fifth. 
COME IN - entrar - "Good morning. Come in and sit down." 
COME ON - ¡Vamos!, ¡Date prisa! - Come on. We're going to be late. 
CUT DOWN ON - consumir menos - You must cut down on cholesterol or you'll have a heart attack. 
CUT OFF - cortar, desconnectar - When we didn't pay the bill, the electricity was cut off. 
CUT UP - cortar en pedazos - We cut up the birthday cake and gave everyone a slice. 
DO UP - abrochar, atar - I was five before I knew how to do up my shoelaces. 
DO WITH - tener algo que ver con, tener relación con - "What's MS DOS?" "It's got something to do with computers." 
DO WITHOUT - pasarse sin, prescindir de - The shops are shut so we'll have to do without sugar. 
Sarah and John 1996 (c)  http://www.lingolex.com/spanish.htm 
DRAW UP - pararse - The car drew up at the zebra crossing. 
GET BACK - volver, regresar - Cinderella had to get back by twelve o'clock. 
GET IN(TO) - entrar - I lost my keys and so I couldn't get into the house. 
GET OFF - bajar (de un autobus, tren) - You have to get off the bus at the next stop if you want the station. 
GET ON - subir (a un autobus, tren, moto) - Quick! Get on the train, it's about to leave. 
GET UP - levantarse - When I got up this morning it was still dark. 
GIVE BACK - devolver - If you don't like the dress, the shop will give you your money back. 
GIVE UP - perder la esperanza, rendirse - If you find phrasal verbs difficult, don't give up. 
GIVE UP - dejar (de fumar, beber) - You'll get cancer if you don't give up smoking. 
GO AHEAD - ¡Siga! - "Can I use the telephone?" "Yes, go ahead." 
GO AWAY - irse, marcharse - Are you going away for Christmas, or are you staying at home. 
GO BACK - volver, regresar - Although she's forty, she's going back to University to study French. 
GO DOWN - bajar - The price of fruit goes down in the summer. 
GO OUT - salir (por la calle) - I always go out and have a few drinks on Saturday night. 
GO UP - subir - The price of cigarettes went up in January 1992. 
HANG ON/HOLD ON - esperar - Hold on for a minute as Pablo will be back in five minute. 
HANG UP - colgar (el teléfono) - My ex-girlfriend hung up when I phoned her. 
KEEP UP WITH - mantenerse (a la altura de) - I can't keep up with my father when we go cycling as he goes too fast. 
KNOCK DOWN - derribar, atropear, demoler - My grandfather's old house was knocked down and a bank was built. 
LEAVE BEHIND - olvidar, dejar - When I got to the airport, I realised I had left my passport behind. 
LET IN - dejar entrar - She opened the door and let in the cat. 
LOOK AFTER - cuidar - My mother looks after the children when we go away. 
LOOK FOR - buscar - I spent two hours looking for my glasses before I found them. 
LOOK FORWARD TO - esperar con ilusión - I'm looking forward to the Easter holidays. 
LOOK OUT - tener cuidado, ¡Ojo! Look out! - There's a car coming. JOHN & SARAH 1996 (c) 
LOOK UP - buscar algo (en un libro, diccionario) - If you don't understand the word, look it up in a dictionary. 
Sarah and John 1996 (c)  http://www.lingolex.com/espan.htm 
PUT IN - meter, introducir - Put ten pence in the machine and you will get a cup of coffee. 
PUT ON - encender - Put on the light, it's getting dark. 
PUT ON - ponerse (la ropa) - Put your coat on or you'll get cold. 
RUN OUT OF - quedars sin algo We ran out of petrol so we had to get the bus. 
SET OFF - ponerse en camino - We set off to Madrid at five o'clock to avoid the traffic. 
TAKE AFTER - parecerse a - Pablo takes after his mother: they are both optimistic. 
TAKE OFF - despegar - The flight was delayed for two hours and the plane eventually took off at 6 p.m. 
TAKE OFF - quitarse la ropa - Take off your coat and make yourself comfortable. 
TAKE OUT - extraer, sacar - He took out a cigarette and lit it. 
THROW AWAY - tirar (en la basura) - Don't throw these papers away: they're important. 
TURN DOWN - bajar (el volumen) - Turn down the radio: it's too loud. 
TURN UP - poner el volumen más fuerte - Turn up the radio. I can't hear it. 
TURN ON - encender (televisión, luces etc.) - Turn on the television, please, I want to see the news.
